# A HTC Cache System Simulator


## Reproducibility

Using `--seed` or elimnating randomness through parameter choices (e.g.
setting `sigma = 0`) allows reproducibility.

Because randomness only occurs during computing the schedule of workflows,
even two parameter sets are comparable as long as the schedule-affecting
parameters are left unchanged.

There remain other aspects which differ between multiple executions
nevertheless. Notably, the file names (or file keys) generated by the
`DataSet` class use the memory address of the `DataSet` instance as part of
the name, which is different on each execution.

## Commands

### Record

Performs the workload generation phase of the simulator and writes an access
sequence (trace) file.

### Workload Stats

Computes various extended statistics over an access sequence and writes this
information to CSV files.

This command has a very high memory usage when enabling all output stats. A
full index of the access sequence constitutes a large part of this. It
requires `(4 + 2 * length(parts)) * 8` bytes of memory for each access. C_0
has an average number of 2.55 parts per access leading to almost 73 bytes of
memory per access. However, because the re-uses of files occur within a
limited time interval (about 12 weeks for C_0), swapping to disk is feasible.

### Replay

Performs the cache policy simulation phase of the simulator. It reads an
access sequence from a file and simulates one or multiple cache processors
according to specification passed to the command.
